              IEEE/ACM 2011 First International Workshop on
         Intercloud Federation and Convergence, Cloud and Grid 
                          (InterCloudGrid11)
            Newport Beach, California, May 23 – 26, 2011

                        in conjunction with 

          The 11th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on 
         Cluster, Cloud, and Grid Computing (CCGrid2011)


Call for Papers

Advances in processing, communication and systems/middleware technologies are
leading to new paradigms and platforms for computing, ranging from Private
Clouds, to Public Clouds, to Grids. The programming models which are used for
Grids, are not well implemented on Clouds, and the modes of use for Clouds, are
not well suited for Grids. Although there is some Federation and
Interoperability in the Grid community, these have yet to widely emerge in the
Cloud Computing space. Some point to point application or gateway specific
Private to Public cloud connectivity schemes has emerged. Public Cloud operators
are beginning to develop some general purpose, multi-cloud interoperability,
known as Intercloud.


Areas of Interest

It is widely believed that the whole space of Clouds, Grids, and the Intercloud
will federate and eventually converge. In many cases lessons in interoperability
and federation from the Grid community are not being leveraged in Cloud
scenarios. Learnings from Clouds are not publicized in the Grid community. This
workshop focuses on techniques, experiences and lessons learned in all
directions, for interoperable services in Clouds, Grids, and the Intercloud.
This workshop aims at providing a forum to bring together researchers for
sharing and exchanging Cloud and Grid computing related research, technologies,
experience, and lessons for building Clouds and Grids with federated and
interoperable capabilities and services. Topics of interest include:

 
  - Theory, frameworks, methodologies, architecture for Cloud and Grid Federation
  - Cloud and Grid Federation and Interoperability Protocols
  - Theory, frameworks, methodologies, architecture for Intercloud
  - Experimental Results of Internet Distributed Multi-Cloud Coordination and Interoperability
  - Semantic Web Services Definitions for Clouds and Grids
  - Management of Federation and Interoperability of Clouds and Grids
  - Federated and Interoperable Cloud and Grid Security and Trust
  - Cloud and Grid Federation governance and regulatory issues
  - Traffic and load balancing across Federated and Interoperable Clouds and Grids
  - QoS/SLA in Federated and Interoperable Clouds and Grids
  - Converged Implementations of Clouds and Grids
  - Grid API implementation on Clouds
  - High Performance Computing (HPC) techniques on Clouds
  - Re-use of Grid Federation protocols and Techniques for Intercloud or Private/Public Cloud
  - Federated and Interoperable Cloud and Grid Testbeds
  - Management operations, discovery, configuration, provisioning in Federated and Interoperable Clouds and Grids
  - Multi-Cloud/Multi-Grid Management Theory, frameworks, methodologies, architecture
  - Geo-balancing in Federated and Interoperable Clouds and Grids
  - Common Programming Models across Clouds and Grids
  - Compliance, Reference Definitions and Semantics, for Clouds and Grids


We welcome technical papers presenting research and practical results, position
papers addressing the pros and cons of specific proposals, such as those being
discussed in standard forums or in industry consortia, survey papers addressing
the key problems and solutions on any of the above topics. We also will consider
short papers on work in progress, and panel proposals.

 
Submission Guidelines

Submitted manuscripts should be structured as technical papers and may not
exceed 10 letter size (8.5 x 11) pages including figures, tables and references
using the IEEE format for conference proceedings (print area of 6-1/2 inches
(16.51 cm) wide by 8-7/8 inches (22.51 cm) high, two-column format with columns
3-1/16 inches (7.85 cm) wide with a 3/8 inch (0.81 cm) space between them,
single-spaced 10-point Times fully justified text).  Submissions not conforming
to these guidelines may be returned without review.  Authors should submit the
manuscript in PDF format and make sure that the file will print on a printer
that uses letter size (8.5 x 11) paper. The IEEE templates for submissions are
available for download here. The official language of the meeting is English.
All manuscripts will be reviewed and will be judged on correctness, originality,
technical strength, significance, quality of presentation, and interest and
relevance to the conference attendees. Each submission will be reviewed by at
least three members of the International Program Committee.

 
Submitted papers must represent original unpublished research that is not
currently under review for any other conference or journal. Papers not following
these guidelines will be rejected without review and further action may be
taken, including (but not limited to) notifications sent to the heads of the
institutions of the authors and sponsors of the conference. Submissions received
after the due date, exceeding length limit, or not appropriately structured may
also not be considered. Authors may contact the conference PC Chair for more
information. Accepted papers will be included in the CCGrid 2011 Conference
proceedings and appear in IEEE Xplorer™ digital library.

                                                                                 
Papers should be submitted electronically (PDF) via the EasyChair submission
system at https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=intercloudgrid11

 
Important Dates

January  28,    2011: Submission of Papers
February 11,    2011: Notification of Acceptance/ Rejection
February 15,    2011: Camera-Ready and Registration Due
May      23-26, 2011: Workshop Takes Place

 
Web Site and Email for Inquiries

Please see http://cloudstrategypartners.com/InterCloudGrid11.htm for updated information

 

Workshop Co-Chairs

David Bernstein, Huawei North America R&D, Vice-Chair, IEEE Cloud Computing
Standards Study Group, dbernstein@huawei.com

Craig Lee, The Aerospace Corporation, President of the Open Grid Forum,
lee@aero.org

 

International Program Committee

Bob Marcus, Huawei
Shantenu Jha, Rutgers
Alan Sill, OGF and TTU
Brett Piatt, OpenStack and Rackspace
Tomonori Aoyama, GICTF

