In moving towards genome sequencing by single channel current recording for
medical diagnostics, it is crucial to understand the microscopic processes
that occur during translocation of DNA through the nanopore. Using Molecular
Dynamics simulations it is possible to recreate the translocation process
giving new insight on the experimental process. This lengthy and
computationally expensive simulation process can be approximated to a more
feasible one while maintaining atomistic detail by using constant
velocity-Steered Molecular Dynamics. cv-SMD introduces non-equilibrium
forces, using Jarzynski's equality it is possible to extract the free energy
profile (an equilibrium property) and retrieve useful information on the
process. In this paper, cv-SMD is applied to large models (330k atoms) for
the translocation of large molecules (single stranded DNA). The simulations
performed attempt to recreate the large experimental difference observed in
the translocation time between homonucleic acid chains of Adenine and
deoxy-Cytosine through the nanopore alpha-Hemolysin. From the data, new
information on key features of the nanopore emerge.
Simulations of nucleic acid strands translocating through DNA
Simulations are Molecular Dynamics based and atomistically detailed
dC vs A used in the hope of giving insight into experimental differences
Jarzynski's equality used to give an energy profile
Jarzynski's equality and Crooks Fluctuation Theorem potentially evaluated
cv-SMD used and evaluated
Extraction of microscopic details and processes
Potential evidence indicating an interaction important to the dC vs A difference
Model configuration and conditions optimised to best represent cv-SMD
Single channel current recording (SCCR) experiments can reveal information on a polymer translocating through a nanopore. Here, a nanopore is inserted into a lipid bilayer and a transmembrane potential is applied. The ionic current through the pore is measured and the translocation of polymers through the pore causes a measurable current blockade by obstructing electrolytes from flowing through the pore. The sequence of a DNA strand could be attained if the output resolution of single channel current recording was high enough. To understand the microscopic processes involved in translocation, we simulate the nanopore α-HL in atomistic detail.

Constant veloctity Steered Molecular Dynamics (cv-SMD) is used to reduce simulation computation to practical levels. In cv-SMD, fast translocation is performed by pulling the front most residue of a single stranded DNA chain at constant velocity. The equilibrium free energy profile is extracted from the non-equilibrium work done using Jarzynski's Equality.

So far, the models and conditions to obtain the free energy profiles for homonucleic strands of Adenine and deoxy-Cytosine translocation have been obtained.  These will be used to perform the translocations in order recreate and gain insight into the experimentally observed translocation times of poly-A and poly-dC in SCCR experiments. Examples of such profiles are attached. The first showing with 4-6 samples per PMF, the difference between A and dC, the second showing identifiable features in the local profile which differ in size, position and shape between A and dC.

More samples are required, and along different sections and lengths of the translocation, to yield a healthy comparison of A and dC. To help distingush features in the profile, single monophosphate models of A and dC have been prepared, translocation simulations of these models are required. Some mutation models have been set up and simulated to identify key features of the pore, more samples of these models are also required before drawing conclusions on their data.
