"Software is largely a service industry operating under the persistent
but unfounded delusion that it is a manufacturing industry." 
-- Eric Raymond, "The magic cauldron" (http://catb.org/~esr/writings/magic-cauldron/)

This is not only true in the industry, but probably even more in academia! 

There are two themes that we should follow in the SAGA/Sustainability context:

T-I: SAGA as a standard to make DCI sustainable. T-II: Making SAGA sustainable. In order to achieve T1, you need T2.

TI. SAGA as key technology to develop sustainable distributed software systems

I.a. Adaptor concept allows to adapt an application to future Grid/Cloud 
middlewares without the need to change the application code. This can help an
application to survive more than one generation of distributed/CI systems. 
(This is SAGA's vertical extensibility)

I.b Well defined interface -- for applications and infrastructure. 
Promotes Interoperability, Extensibility & Simplicity (of applications, tools infrastructure). All three 
ensure sustainability.


I.c

Of course, T-I depends on T-II since it would be hard to sell SAGA as 
a key technology for sustainability if it wouldn't be sustainable itself. This
should probably be the opening remark of the talk and both themes should be 
described subsequently. Personally, I would put more weight on II -- ideally 
with some application examples. What would be good candidates for this?

T-II. Efforts we make to make SAGA sustainable 

II.a Strong community-driven standard

II.b Strategic deployment-agreements with big infrastructure providers. 

II.c Support for SAGA within community tools. "Impedance matching between tools and infrastructure".

II.d Standard + Implementation allow functional extensions (e.g. Advert, Messaging, etc.)
This allows SAGA to grow with technology and potentially prevents it from becoming 'obsolete'.
(This is SAGA's horizontal extensibility). 



Notes from Andre:

  - good points above.  I like the quote! :-)

  - What does T-II depend on?  middleware sustainability!  That is not
    a given - and is one of our biggest problems, as problems with
    underlying technology fall back onto us, i.e. SAGA.  
    - Boost
    - Condor


  - that can only be solved by outsourcing development - which we are
    starting to do

